Dear Dr. Marchant and Members of the Search Committee,
My name is Grace Steiner, and I am writing to apply to the Assistant Instructional Professor of Applied
Voice and Music History position at Pittsburg State University. I am a final-year DMA student in Voice at the
University of Kansas, and I will complete my degree by May 2025. With my academic coursework
completed last spring, I am free to conduct my research while teaching throughout the next academic year.
From my first voice lessons during high school with a professor at Fort Hays State University, through my
doctoral studies at KU, professors of Kansas have shaped my musical journey. It is because of their
influence that I desire to provide music students from Kansas communities the same rigorous, attentive,
and superlative instruction that I received. This position’s emphasis on teaching in the voice studio and in
larger classroom settings aligns particularly well with the focus I have placed on pedagogy throughout my
graduate studies. Therefore, because of my dedication to teaching both applied lessons and academic
courses, my continued passion for performance, and my drive to pursue education, performance, and
recruitment to promote and advance musical arts in Kansas, I am excited to apply for this position.
As a teacher, my constant desire to better understand and connect with my students allows me to serve
their unique needs. I have taught as an adjunct professor of music at Rockhurst University since 2022,
where I instruct eight to twelve non-majors and music minors in applied voice lessons each semester. To
best instruct these students, I introduce the foundations of singing through repertoire my students co-
select with me, from classical art song and musical theatre to jazz and pop music. I incorporate music
history and theory into their learning process to provide context to their pieces, encouraging their
connection to the music while simultaneously providing a comprehensive musical education. As a graduate
teaching assistant at KU, I teach vocal performance, music education, and music therapy students. There, I
emphasize repertoire choices that reinforce individual vocal development and ignite passion in
autonomous student practice. Because there are endless works appropriate for students that are rarely
performed, I also assign repertoire from underrepresented composers for each student every semester.
Though applied lessons are my standard method of instruction, I maintain great interest in the pedagogy of
musical fields outside of voice. I have taken elective coursework in classroom instruction of music theory
and vocal pedagogy during my doctoral studies, and I have instructed lessons and masterclasses in lyric
diction, vocal pedagogy, music theory, and music history. As a proponent of continual development as an
educator, I was awarded a Preparing Future Faculty Fellowship during my MM studies.
To best serve my students and prepare them for diverse careers—from the classroom to the stage—I also
prioritize my performance experiences. In 2023, I sang the lead role of Diana in the world premiere of
composer Susan Kander’s Carry My Own Suitcase, a winner of the 2022 Opera America Discovery Grant.
This role invigorated my passion for twenty-first century music, English-language opera, and realistic and
modern operatic plots or stagings. In February 2024, my portrayal of Mrs. Lovett in Sweeney Todd

reaffirmed my belief in vocal cross-training with musical theatre or other contemporary idioms and the
importance of singing all genres in a healthy way. This experience also centered my doctoral research upon
the use of musical theatre literature for vocal development in the classical voice studio.
At each level of my studies and in all my professional experiences, I have extended my efforts beyond
education and performance in order to best serve my institution. My positive attitude led to my
appointment as Prospective Student Manager for the Kansas State University Choirs, where I was
individually responsible for meeting potential students and their families. I created lasting connections
with each student to demonstrate the culture of kindness awaiting them at KSU, an attitude I hope to
promote on any campus. Likewise, my dedicated involvement in the operas at KU has led to beneficial
experiences outside of performance, such as assistant stage direction, musical coaching, and rehearsal
scheduling.
I cannot imagine a better fit than this position, which would fulfill my goal of teaching and sharing music
with the hardworking, innovative, and kind young people of my home state. Furthermore, because I have
become better acquainted with the town thorugh my brother-in-law, who works at Pittsburg State, I know I
would feel very much at home in the community. I would be thoroughly overjoyed to join the faculty of
Pittsburg State and to serve its students much like my professors did for me. Thank you for your
consideration. I look forward to hearing from you.
Sincerely,

Grace Steiner
